README.md, before:

# FinFan #

This project is a remake of the game Final Fantasy.

### Summary ###

The repository is split into a game project and two tools. The tools extract resources from the original game and put them in a format usable by the game code.

The game is written in C++ and links with the Allegro library. The tools are written in C#.

Despite Allegro being a cross-platform library, all of the code is built with Visual Studio tools. Feel free to port all of this to other operating systems. Please let me know if you do.

The ExtractNsf project uses the Game Music Emu library.

### How do I get set up? ###

The subprojects build with Visual Studio 2010 and depend on the Allegro library (5.2) that is automatically downloaded using Nuget. You’ll also need a copy of the original ROM for each game.

The remake is divided in two parts: the remade game in the Game folder, and the extractor in the Tools folder. The extractor pulls resources like graphics and data tables out of the original ROM and puts them into a format suitable for the remade game. Build and run the extractor before building and running the remade game.

The extractor takes some arguments. For example:

```
#!cmd

ExtractRes <RomPath> <Function> -out <OutputPath>
```

You can build all resources with the all function. Set OutputPath to the path where the remade game will go.

Once the resources are built, build and run the program in the bin folder.

### History ###

Even though I had been interested in remaking the The Legend of Zelda a long time ago, Final Fantasy was the first that I did.

Much of the code is based on [Disch's disassembly](http://www.romhacking.net/documents/401/). I also disassembled other parts, or observed and inferred how they work.

I've enhanced the game to look and feel more like others in the series; in particular the following ways:

* Fades are done by fading in or out of black or white, not with color cycling.
* All menus are different and are easier to use and more informative.
* The user interface of Battle Mode is like in other games in the series.
* I implemented Active Time Battle.
    * You turn it on at build time.
* Treasure chests are shown as open or closed.

### Who do I talk to? ###

This software is written by Aldo Nunez (aldonunez1@gmail.com).

Feel free to reach out to me, if you'd like to learn more about the project.

Commit message:

Clarify ROM and extractor details in the README.
Create extractor's output folder if needed.
Fix the length of a block of code to copy to SFX NSF.
Validate the length of the ROM.

README.md, after:

# FinFan #

This project is a remake of the game Final Fantasy.

### Summary ###

The repository is split into a game project and two tools. The tools extract resources from the original game and put them in a format usable by the game code.

The game is written in C++ and links with the Allegro library. The tools are written in C#.

Despite Allegro being a cross-platform library, all of the code is built with Visual Studio tools. Feel free to port all of this to other operating systems. Please let me know if you do.

The ExtractNsf project uses the Game Music Emu library.

### How do I get set up? ###

The subprojects build with Visual Studio 2010 and depend on the Allegro library (5.2) that is automatically downloaded using Nuget. You’ll also need a copy of the original ROM (the (U) version).

The remake is divided in two parts: the remade game in the Game folder, and the extractor in the Tools folder. The extractor pulls resources like graphics and data tables out of the original ROM and puts them into a format suitable for the remade game. The extractor and the remake can be built in any order. But the extractor must be run before running the game.

The extractor takes the following arguments:

```
#!cmd

ExtractRes <RomPath> <Function> -out <OutputPath>
```

The "all" function builds all resources. Set <OutputPath> to the folder path containing the remake.

Once the resources are built, run the game program in the bin folder.

### History ###

Even though I had been interested in remaking the The Legend of Zelda a long time ago, Final Fantasy was the first that I did.

Much of the code is based on [Disch's disassembly](http://www.romhacking.net/documents/401/). I also disassembled other parts, or observed and inferred how they work.

I've enhanced the game to look and feel more like others in the series; in particular the following ways:

* Fades are done by fading in or out of black or white, not with color cycling.
* All menus are different and are easier to use and more informative.
* The user interface of Battle Mode is like in other games in the series.
* I implemented Active Time Battle.
    * You turn it on at build time.
* Treasure chests are shown as open or closed.

### Who do I talk to? ###

This software is written by Aldo Nunez (aldonunez1@gmail.com).

Feel free to reach out to me, if you'd like to learn more about the project.
